
# Data Modeling with Postgres

In this project, I modeled user activity data to create a database and ETL pipeline in Postgres for a music streaming app. I defined Fact and Dimension tables and inserted data into new tables.

Prompt: "A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app."

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

#### Necessary files:
* `sql_queries.py`
* `create_tables.py`
* `etl.py`

#### Necessary data:
* See Data files section below

### Running
First run `create_tables.py`

```
# python3 `create_tables.py`
```

And then `etl.py`
```
# python3 `etl.py`
```

### Data files

#### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```


#### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this  [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim)  based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```



## Authors

* **Brendon Jerome Butler** 

## Acknowledgments

* Udacity Knowledge forums & mentors
